---
permalink: /docs/guides/ios_signing/
title: "iOS Code Signing"
---

Apple requires code signing an app to run it on a device and use their services. You can't compile an iOS app and deploy it to an iphone without signing. This is only needed for devices, you can still build and run on the simulator without code signing the app. Devices used for development need to be registered and added to the provisioning profile used to sign the app. For more information regarding code signing see <https://developer.apple.com/support/code-signing/>.

In MetaBuild you can add the code signing credentials in the config (lock) file:

```
[xcode]
code_sign_style_ios = Automatic
development_team_ios = dev_team_id
code_sign_identity_ios = iPhone Developer
```

You can specify the code signing style as `Automatic` or `Manual`. The `Automatic` setting will use the correct certificate to sign your app with based on the provisioning profile, while with the `Manual` setting you have to explicitly specify both the code signing identity (`code_sign_identity_ios`) and the provisioning profile (`provisioning_profile_specifier`).
If automatic code signing is enabled, Xcode does the following for you when needed: (creates your signing certificates, registers connected devices, creates and edits App IDs, manages provisioning profiles, edits the entitlements and information property list files). In this scenario only the team id is needed which is a unique 10-character string generated by Apple that’s assigned to your team. The identity `iPhone Developer` is the default value set by Xcode when automatic code signing is used.

For manual code signing you need to manually download and install the provisioning profile specified with `provisioning_profile_specifier` and perform the steps above if needed manually from the Apple developer account. In this case the code signing identity corresponds to the Common Name used in the certificate signing request.

All targets in a bundle should use the same signing certificate. If automatic signing is enabled for one target, all targets should have automatic signing enabled in the project.
MetaBuild will use the code signing properties from the root project only, these settings are not inherited from projects added as dependencies.
The Xcode project generated by MetaBuild will have these settings in the `Build Settings` -> `Signing` section.

